- [Case Study on Robinhood Markets](#case-study-on-robinhood-markets)
  * [Overview and Origin](#overview-and-origin)
  * [Business Activities](#business-activities-)
  * [Landscape](#landscape-)
  * [Results](#results)
  * [Recommendations](#recommendations)
  * [References](#references)
  
 
# Case Study on Robinhood Markets

## Overview and Origin

(Wikipedia, n.d.)Robinhood Markets is an American financial services company headquartered in Menlo Park, California. Robinhood was founded in March 2015 by Vladimir Tenev and Baiju Bhatt. 

According to (Our Story, n.d.), Vladimir Tenev and Baiju Bhatt met in Stanford who developed finance companies which sell trading software to hedge funds. They started Robinhood Markets with a view of providing everyone with access to financial markets as most Americans were charged commission for every trade. 

As per (Huang, 2015), Robinhood is a Silicon Valley upstart which was initially funded by its founders Vladimir Tenev and Baiju Bhatt during its development stages. Later it was launched on Apple Inc’s App store in March 2015 and later was backed by Andreessen Horowitz along with Jared Letto and SnoopDogg.  

According to (Wikipedia, n.d.), Robbinhood raised $110 Million at a valuation by DST Global, In 2018, Robinhood raised a funding of $539 million in venture capital funding. 
(Forbes, n.d.) Stated that the revenue of Robinhood in 2021 Q1 is $420 million which was increased by 340% compared to previous year. Robinhood declared that it has US$ 98 Billion in assets under management at the end of Q4 2021.

## Business Activities

As per (StackShare, n.d.) Robinhood mentioned that it started with a simple idea to use technology and cut out extra costs that other financial services use like legacy technology, hundreds of storefronts. 
(Fast Company, n.d.) mentioned that Robinhood wanted to help everyone to enter into financial markets with its mission to democratize finance as most of the Wall Street Firms Charge commission for every trade leaving their investors with less profits even though the firms pay nothing to trade. 
 (Curry, 2022) added that the intended customers of Robinhood are high frequency traders, young people in between the age of 18 and 29 years and financial brokers. (Fast Company, n.d.) released statistics stating that the total number of users in 2021 is 22.5 million and the total number of users in 2022 is 15.6 million. (Curry, 2022) stated that each user generated an average revenue of US $64 in 2021 Q4. 

Upon analysis it is found that the high number of users on its platform is because Robinhood offers all of its trades at a 0% commission unlike any other competitors when it was founded. 
According to (Davis, 2022), Robinhood offers  free crypto trading which is offered by only few brokers. However when compared with other platforms who are offering the same service, cost of trading on Robinhood are completely negligible. As per (Davis, 2022), the unfair advantage which Robinhood provides to its customers is IPO access to its customers which was provided only to financial organizations by its competitors and Robinhood doesn’t have an account minimum which plays a strategic role in attracting its users onto the platform. 

According to information mentioned on (StackShare, n.d.) it was found that Robinhood uses some basic technologies like Amazon EC2, Kotlin, NGINX, Faust, Elasticsearch, Docker, prometheus, Vagrant, Salt, Vault, Logstash, Jenkins, Kibana, Google Analytics, Faust, Redux. 
According to (Amazon, 2016), Amazon AWS is used by Robinhood to operate online business, to send application update notifications to users and update the application, store user information along with treading data and use it to perform business analytics.
The table below shows the software and its purpose according to (StackShare, n.d.). 

|Software | Purpose|
| -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Amazon EC2|Used to compute capacity in cloud|Kotlin |To statically type programming language targeting|
|NGINX|Used as a open source web server to power the website|
|Faust|Used as a Python library to build streamlined applications|
|Elasticsearch|Used as a RESTful search Engine|
|Docker|Used as a enterprise container platform for high velocity innovation|
|Prometheus|Used as a time series database and as a open source monitoring system|
|Vagrant|Used to build and distribute development environments|
|Salt|Used for data center automation|
|Vault|Used for security purposes to store passwords, certificates, API keys etc|
|Logstash|Used to parse data|
|Jenkins|Used as an extendable open source continuous integration server.|
|Kibana|Used as a visualization tool for the data generated by Elasticsearch|
|Google Analytics|Used to analyse the data|
|Memcached|Used as a distributed memory caching system|
|Redux|Used to predict state contained for applications|

## Landscape

According to (Horton, 2021), Robinhood falls under the category of Brokerage Firms who will assist individuals or organizations in purchasing or selling securities. 
As per (Divine, 2019), the major innovations in the brokerage domain are the features offered which revolutionized the industry. Few of such features include margin buying, crypto trading and no account minimums which attracted millions of users on to the platform. 
The major companies in the same domain are E -Trade, TD Ameritrade, Charles Schwab which are valued at $9.7 Billion, 19.5 Billion, 50.4 Billion whereas Robinhood is valued at 7.6 Billion. It has even been observed that the number of users in this domain surged by 12.3% during COVID19 and the crypto surges. 

## Results
Robinhood had a huge impact on the market with their presence in providing online brokerage services. As per (Rekenthaler, 2021), they found that Robinhood users alone boosted the US Stock market by 1.0% during Q2 2020 which was earlier added by 0.6% in Q1 2020. If trades by Robinhood are annualized, it would have contributed 3% of Wilshire 5000 Index total return in 2020. 
The core metrics which were identified by (Culas, 2020) which are used to measure success are average price per share compared to the average 10b -18 VWAP, Revenue generated, Net Income, Net profit margin. 
According to their financial statement released, Robinhood beat its Earning per Share value by 6.24% in Q2 2022 which is 2 times higher compared to its competitors which were standing in between 1-3% in Q2 2022. Robinhood reported its revenue to be $318 Million, net income of $295 million. 
When compared with its competitors in its domain, it can be observed that Robinhood is performing moderately when compared with Charles Schwab but Robinhood outranked E-Trade and TD Ameritrade by 8-9% on average on every KPI. 
The number of users on Robinhood platform is 15.6 Million which is highest with an account average of $4000. The total number of users of E-Trade, TD Ameritrade, Charles Schwab are 4.5 million, 3.8 million and 3 million  but with account average $12700, $21400 and $234000 respectively. 


## Recommendations

According to research conducted by (Flores, n.d.), it is found that the number of educational resources available are limited, investment offerings are limited as Robinhood doesn’t offer any mutual funds or fixed income investment products and its users cannot trade any commodities, forex or futures. As Robinhood doesn’t publish payment for order flow statistics which negatively impacts the transparency of the organization. It is observed that there is no support available and includes long waiting time which creates a negative impact on customer service. 
If Robinhood implements the above mentioned problems faced by its users, it add customer satisfaction, increase the number of users which will increase the revenue generated by its users.  
It would require a dedicated customer support team who will assist its customers in purchasing a trade or any problems faced by them. If a payment of order flow statistics to be published by Robinhood it needs a development team which will publish them in a timely manner making sure that confidential information is not released. 


## References
1 : Amazon. (2016). AWS. Retrieved August 15, 2022, from https://aws.amazon.com/solutions/case-studies/robinhood/

2 : Culas, V. (2020, February 10). A better way to assess OMR broker performance. Matthews South. Retrieved August 18, 2022, from https://matthewssouth.com/a-better-way-to-assess-omr-broker-performance/

3 : Curry, D. (2022, June 30). Robinhood Revenue and Usage Statistics (2022). Business of Apps. Retrieved August 15, 2022, from https://www.businessofapps.com/data/robinhood-statistics/

4 : Davis, C. (2022, May 31). Robinhood Review 2022: Pros, Cons and How It Compares. NerdWallet. Retrieved August 15, 2022, from https://www.nerdwallet.com/reviews/investing/brokers/robinhood

5 : Divine, J. (2019, October 17). How Robinhood Changed an Industry. US News Money. Retrieved August 18, 2022, from https://money.usnews.com/investing/investing-101/articles/how-robinhood-changed-an-industry

6 : Fast Company. (n.d.). Fast Company. Retrieved August 15, 2022, from https://www.fastcompany.com/company/robinhood

7 : Flores, F. (n.d.). Robinhood Reviewed: The Good and The Bad. Investopedia. Retrieved August 18, 2022, from https://www.investopedia.com/robinhood-review-4587919

8 : Forbes. (n.d.). Forbes. Retrieved August 15, 2022, from https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2021/07/23/how-does-robinhood-markets-make-money/?sh=2a478c4d2d13

9 : Horton, M. (2021, April 29). What Are the 9 Major Types of Financial Institutions? Investopedia. Retrieved August 18, 2022, from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/061615/what-are-major-categories-financial-institutions-and-what-are-their-primary-roles.asp

10 : Huang, D. (2015, January 6). Young, Poor and Looking to Invest? Robinhood Is the App for That. Wall Street Journal. Retrieved August 15, 2022, from https://www.wsj.com/articles/BL-MBB-31486

11 : Our Story. (n.d.). Robinhood. Retrieved August 15, 2022, from https://robinhood.com/us/en/support/articles/our-story/

12 : Rekenthaler, J. (2021, August 5). How the Robinhood Era Is Changing Stock-Market Investing. Morningstar. Retrieved August 18, 2022, from https://www.morningstar.com/articles/1032245/how-the-robinhood-era-is-changing-stock-market-investing

13 : StackShare. (n.d.). StackShare. Retrieved August 15, 2022, from https://stackshare.io/companies/robinhood

14 : Wikipedia. (n.d.). Robinhood Wikipedia. Retrieved August 15, 2022, from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robinhood_Markets




